So we've seen that the JRE, Java Runtime,
comes the number number of built‑in permission classes,
such as file permission, and we've seen how we use those,
but suppose those built‑in permissions aren't what we need,
suppose you want to use our own permission,
and we can write our own permissions.
So we're able to write custom permissions,
and to do that, we typically extend the base class,
BasicPermission.
Now, obviously, we could extend one of the other built‑in classes,
but more often than not, you'd extend BasicPermission.
BasicPermission has a two argument constructor,
and we're provided implementation of that,
and then more importantly, permissions have what's known as an implies method.
We have the permission that we've been granted through the policy file,
and then we have the permission that somebody is asking for.
So, for example, in the policy file,
we might have been given read access to a file,
and here somebody's asking for write access to that file.
This will be the same permission, it'd be a file
permission against the same file.
If we've only been given read access, and somebody's asking for
write access, then the permission call should fail. So read
access doesn't imply write access.
Now the opposite probably is true.
So if I've been given write access to the file, then I almost certainly
want to able to read the file, so write does imply read.
So all permissions have an imply method that we have to implement. Once we've
created the permission, and we'll see how we do that in a moment, we add an
entry into the policy file, and custom permissions follow the same naming
conventions that built‑in permissions.
So we give it the name of the class that implements the permission.
In this case,
we're going to model a spaceship, and spaceships can fly at warp
speed, and they have a max warp, and in this case,
we go ahead and say the maxWarp is nine. So, by adding this
permission to our policy file, we're giving the spaceship
the ability to fly at warp nine.
Our permission class would look like this.
So, it'd be a class called WarpPermission,
it would extend BasicPermission, and this is the two argument constructor.
It has a name, which will be maxWarp, then the action, and
the action in this case is the value to which we can warp
at. So we can warp it up to nine.
If this is a file permission, then the name would be the name
of the file that we're applying permission for, and the action
would be one of read or write.
So the implies method. The implies method can be difficult to
implement. With permissions, one permission is a subset of another
permission, and if we have these two permissions,
the fact that we have a implying b does not mean that be implies a.
So again,
if we have read and write, write implies read, but read does not imply
write. So it's really important we get implies correct, and it can be
difficult to correctly implement implies.
So our implies will look something like this. We're saying
first of all, is the permission class a WarpPermission, and
if it's not, return false.
We call our base class, and if that fails implies then we fail.
Otherwise we cast the permission passed into us to be a WarpPermission.
So now, in this case,
this permission that we have here would have been created from the policy file.
So our warpFactor will be whatever is being set in the policy file.
The permission that's passed to implies is the
permission that's being asked for.
So we have to be sure that the warpFactor we've been granted is greater than the
warpFactor somebody is asking for, and if that's the case,
we can return true, and if it's not, we fail the implies call. So, let's write some code to see this in action.